# LogMonitor: Centralized Log Aggregation and Analysis Platform LogMonitor is a powerful, real-time log aggregation and analysis platform designed specifically for IT operations teams. This platform provides a unified view of log data from various sources, enabling teams to identify trends, detect anomalies, and respond to critical events in real-time. LogMonitor is designed to address the challenges of log management in modern IT environments. With the increasing complexity of distributed systems and the proliferation of log data, IT teams need a centralized platform that can collect, process, and analyze log data in real-time. LogMonitor provides a scalable, flexible, and customizable solution that meets the needs of modern IT operations teams. The platform offers a range of features that enable IT teams to optimize log data analysis, including real-time alerting, customizable visualization, and advanced analytics capabilities. With LogMonitor, teams can identify critical events, detect security threats, and troubleshoot issues faster and more efficiently. LogMonitor is built using GoLang, a modern, high-performance programming language that provides a scalable and concurrent architecture. This allows the platform to handle large volumes of log data and provide fast and efficient processing, even in high-traffic environments. ## Key Features * **Real-time Log Aggregation**: LogMonitor collects log data from various sources, including syslog, Apache Kafka, and Amazon Kinesis, and processes it in real-time. * **Advanced Analytics**: The platform provides advanced analytics capabilities, including machine learning-based anomaly detection, trend analysis, and predictive analytics. * **Customizable Visualization**: LogMonitor offers a range of visualization tools, including dashboards, charts, and graphs, that can be customized to meet the needs of IT teams. * **Real-time Alerting**: The platform provides real-time alerting capabilities, enabling IT teams to respond quickly to critical events and security threats. * **Scalability**: LogMonitor is designed to scale horizontally, enabling it to handle large volumes of log data and high-traffic environments. * **Security**: The platform provides robust security features, including encryption, authentication, and access control, to ensure log data is protected and secure. ## Technology Stack * **GoLang**: LogMonitor is built using GoLang, a modern, high-performance programming language that provides a scalable and concurrent architecture. * **Apache Kafka**: The platform uses Apache Kafka for log data ingestion and processing, enabling real-time data processing and analytics. * **InfluxDB**: LogMonitor uses InfluxDB for log data storage, providing a scalable and high-performance data storage solution. * **Grafana**: The platform uses Grafana for visualization, providing a range of visualization tools and dashboards. * **Docker**: LogMonitor is containerized using Docker, enabling easy deployment and management. ## Installation To install LogMonitor, follow these steps: 1. Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/ewhu/LogMonitor.git` 2. Change into the repository directory: `cd LogMonitor` 3. Build the Docker image: `docker build -t logmonitor .` 4. Run the Docker container: `docker run -p 8080:8080 logmonitor` ## Configuration LogMonitor can be configured using environment variables and configuration files. The following environment variables are supported: * `LOGMONITOR_KAFKA_BROKERS`: The Kafka broker URL (default: `localhost:9092`) * `LOGMONITOR_INFLUXDB_URL`: The InfluxDB URL (default: `http://localhost:8086`) * `LOGMONITOR_GRAFANA_URL`: The Grafana URL (default: `http://localhost:3000`) ## Usage LogMonitor provides a REST API for interacting with the platform. The API documentation can be found at `http://localhost:8080/api/docs`. ## Contributing Contributions to LogMonitor are welcome! To contribute, follow these steps: 1. Fork the repository: `git fork https://github.com/ewhu/LogMonitor.git` 2. Create a new branch: `git branch feature/new-feature` 3. Make changes and commit: `git commit -m Add new feature` 4. Push changes to your fork: `git push origin feature/new-feature` 5. Create a pull request: `git request-pull origin feature/new-feature` ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/ewhu/LogMonitor/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details. ## Acknowledgements LogMonitor is built on top of several open-source projects, including Apache Kafka, InfluxDB, and Grafana. We would like to acknowledge the contributions of these projects and their communities.